As a security analyst,
one of your responsibilities
might include analyzing
log data to mitigate and manage
threats, risks, and
vulnerabilities.
As a reminder, a log is
a record of events that
occur within an organization's
systems and networks.
Security analysts
access a variety
of logs from different sources.
Three common log sources
include firewall logs,
network logs, and server logs.
Let's explore each of these
log sources in more detail.
A firewall log is a
record of attempted or
established connections for
incoming traffic
from the internet.
It also includes
outbound requests
to the internet from
within the network.
A network log is a record of
all computers and devices
that enter and
leave the network.
It also records
connections between
devices and services
on the network.
Finally, a server
log is a record of
events related to services
such as websites,
emails, or file shares.
It includes actions
such as login,
password, and username requests.
By monitoring logs, like
the one shown here,
security teams can identify
vulnerabilities and
potential data breaches.
Understanding logs is important
because SIEM tools rely on
logs to monitor systems and
detect security threats.
A security information and
event management, or SIEM, tool
is an application that
collects and
analyzes log data to
monitor critical activities
in an organization.
It provides real-time
visibility,
event monitoring and analysis,
and automated alerts.
It also stores all log data
in a centralized location.
Because SIEM tools index and
minimize the number of logs
a security professional must
manually review and analyze,
they increase efficiency
and save time.
But, SIEM tools must be
configured and customized to
meet each organization's
unique security needs.
As new threats and
vulnerabilities emerge,
organizations must
continually customize
their SIEM tools to ensure that
threats are detected
and quickly addressed.
Later in the
certificate program,
you'll have a chance
to practice using
different SIEM tools to
identify potential
security incidents.
Coming up, we'll explore
SIEM dashboards and
how cybersecurity
professionals use
them to monitor for
threats, risks, and
vulnerabilities.